# SNHU-CS-305
*Software Security*

In this course we worked for a company named Global Rain and were given a client called Artemis Finacial.  The company is a consulting firm that develops individiualized financial plans for its customers.  They wanted to modernize their operations and use the lastest software security.  The application they were using was a RESTful web API.  In project 1 we took on a consulation role while in project 2 we took on a more hands on approach.

I used the first assignment to better understand what sort of security vulnerabilities Artemis Finacial would face.  As a finacial consult, they had many clients who consider confidentiality a major focus.  I was careful to write secure code when building off the RESTful web API that the client already had.  I succeded in not adding additonal vulnerabilities to the web API.  By creating secure code, we ensure that security is maintained from the top down.  By understanding the vulnerabilities inherent to code, and the methods of attack, we can create thoughtful code that is written to mitigate those issues.  This saves both time and money as fixing something after the fact is far harder than doing so when you're writing it.  Some things such as buffer overflow and SQL injection are preventable.  Writing insecure code can cost quite a bit to a company, ranging from DOS attacks which stop income to more malicious attacks that lead to data breaches if not properly accounted for.  To my mind, one major issue is that the company generally doesn’t understand how the app they use works and lean toward a “if it ain’t broke” mentality.  This leads to companies being far out of date, and vulnerabilities to be well known and easy to exploit.  Innovation is not a burden, sure growing pains are going to happen, but a secure system will pay dividends.

The vulnerability assessment was helpful, but I found it challenging because is felt like it was made for higher level programers already in the field as a vauge reminder.  For my purposes it was too vauge, but perhaps that's a skill issue that will resolve with time.

We increased security by adding HTTPS support, generating a self-signed certificate using SHA-346 and RSA encryption.  This update creates a secure connecton between host and server.  We also used SHA-256 to generate a hash key to validate that information was not changed or manipulated in transit.  We used maven dependecy testing from OWASP, checking for security vulnerabilities in the application.  In the future I would use OWASP database through maven or mend.io, the later of which is integrated into Jetbrains IDEs.
